# Disaster-management
A disaster management app built by Fateh Singh and Sarthi Tripathi.
INTRODUCTION

With the latest events of natural and unexpected disasters, there seems to be a greater need than ever to explore faster and more effective methods of activating relief efforts. Communications technologies -- including the use of social and mobile tools -- continue to play increasing roles in emergency and rescue efforts as well as for overall personal and family safety. Because of the recent earthquakes around the country and (thinking about/when one thinks about) how the weather has become more and more unpredictable, keeping yourself informed is of most important importance. This makes it very important to introduce such an app that can hopefully prevent such disasters and (in the end) save human life.

FEATURES

-The Disaster Alert application features current worldwide disaster and active danger-related info on an interactive map or list. Users can also share or add information on current situations. -The Disaster alert app includes alerts and details about disasters around the world. Select an event and you can see its location, damage caused, (seriousness/ level), and impact radius on a world map. Tap one, and you see more described/explained information, as well as quick links to share the news on social networks. -The app collects reports of all earthquakes within the past 24 hours, and displays details like damage levels and rumble areas on an interactive map , allows users to filter by importance, date, and distance from location. It also displays full details, including importance, date, time, location, depth and shaking strength. -The computer program also provides following and recording of current storms on a Google Maps background. It displays tracks and forecasts of active hurricanes or (related to areas near the Equator/hot and humid) storms, as well as highlighting areas of possible storm development. -It turns your smartphone into an emergency weather radio. Get storm-based alerts for tornado, hurricane, flood, (huge rainstorm with lightning and thunder) and other life-threatening weather events via voice and push notice/communication. -Automated suggestions of healthcare centres/police stations to (figuring out who or what needs attention first) relief from. -SMS alerts to victims in the area with directions to the nearest relief centre. -It is designed to help people communicate when traditional cellular networks go down during a disaster. The app uses the combined signal of Wi-Fi and Bluetooth to form ad hoc network that allows one to send and receive messages. -The Reports range from damages in an area and a person's current situation during a disaster. Users are also able to connect to friends easily as the system (combines different things together so they work as one unit) contacts in the user's account. The app is also open to disaster aid volunteers.
